These guys weren't that much bigger than I was. And
I was small. And you look at some of the kids today
that play football particularly, but even
basketball, and they're lots bigger than the kids
back then. We had, you know, Stallings wasn't much
bigger than I was. And a college kid that weighed
200 pounds Well, Charlie Kruger was one of the
largest. Yeah. And Pardee, Crowe, they probably
as seniors barely made 200. But Gene Stoll was
probably 170. Bobby Marks was 155, 160. Randy Sims
was not that big. Bobby Drake Keith. And several of
them made the pros. You know, St. Louis, I think two
or three Aggies when they graduated here went to
St. Louis. Cardinals had played for years. As far
as you students knew, did those Bear Bryant
athletes go to class? I saw several of them in my
classes. Did y'all ever hear- Roper was a senior, a
center, and he was an ag major. Did y'all ever hear
of any- Well, Murray Trimble, I don't know if
Murray ever went. The reputation on campus was
that he was a hell raiser. But as far as I know, They
were in class, but I couldn't vouch for it. But
y'all didn't hear any stories about any classes
specifically for athletes only? I didn't. I don't
think there were any. I'm not aware of it. Let's
see. What was Yale practice like in that time?
Well, his pinky down was cutting off his tie and
throwing it out. And of course, there were always
some Aggie fables told by the yell leaders. And it
was held where? It was over in the Grove. In the
Grove. Yeah. And it was just another one of those
sweat times when sophomores just loved to chew on
freshmen. What hour of the Friday night? Usually
it was about midnight. So it really was at
midnight. Yes. And we would have sometimes more
than one yell practice in a week because we marched
right after supper over and spent about an hour
getting ready for an opponent that weekend. But
yell practice on Friday night was at midnight. All
right, Secretary, don't type this in here. It's
not part of it. One of RC's suggestions for the
leadership to consider is to move Yale practice
earlier on Friday night so the team can go and
participate in the enthusiasm and know of the
support they have, and to have Yale practice at,
say, 8 o'clock. And still get a good night's sleep.
And still get a good night's sleep, which I think is
a good idea. But apparently that's getting a lot of
second thought by students saying, no, no, we've
never done it that way before. Well, we have. It
used to be earlier during the week if we had the Yelp
practice on a Thursday or on a Wednesday. And it was
always in the grove, all four years? I don't
remember having Yelp practice any place but the
grove. Describe, then, home game Saturday. What
time did things start? What did take through the
whole day? Well, you'd fall out about the same time
that we did during the regular weekday, about 6.
We'd march over to Sabisa or Duncan, eat, and then
come back and usually had a room inspection. Well,
you went to class. Well, we had Saturday morning
classes. But we'd usually have, on Saturday, we'd
usually have a room inspection to see that
everything was ship shape and we knew how to make a
bed and we knew how to, and this was usually with a
military science officer being accompanied by
the first sergeant and CO. Then we would fall out
usually about, if it was a 2 o'clock game, we'd fall
out about 12.30 or 1 and march over as a unit and move
up into the freshman section and sophomore
section and juniors and seniors. I think that's
even precedent today, at least in the court. And
then participate in the yelling at the game. Those
things haven't changed a whole lot. We stood up.
The uniform, of course, was worn all week. Anytime
you were on campus, you were in uniform. As you
recall, what were some of your happiest football
games and your most unhappy, disappointed games?
Well of course the winning against the University
of Texas was a thrill because it had been a bunch of
years since we had won a Texas game but being here
with Bear Bryant's era you got the impression that
A&M had always been good had always won, and when
Hank Fulberg and Jim Fry came as coaches in the 60s
and 70s, you just couldn't believe what had
happened. It was difficult surviving those years
after being spoiled with your introduction as an
Aggie to the Bear Bind era. Now, we had the tough 58
with the Rice and the Texas loss, two points and one
point. But other than that, every time we played,
we expected to win. I mean, seriously expected to
win. It wasn't a fantasy. Were you at that Rice
game? Yes. What did you guys do after it was over?
Just stood there and tried to get out of shock. Same
way with Texas. Even though it had been tempered
that, well, A&M might be beaten because you just
didn't entertain that. I mean, it was something
that was so ridiculous that you just didn't
entertain the thought that we had two more games
won. And describe a typical G. Raleigh White home
basketball game for you students. very much like a
football game. We filled the place and we yelled
and at that time of course you didn't think about it
but the players were all white. And I was trying to
think of the first colored basketball player that
A&M had. It was shortly after. Must have been
Shelby's third or fourth year as head coach.
Because I can't remember his name, but I remember
when that happened. Let's see. I think SMU had had a
black player the year before, and then A&M had
recruited a black player. And the whole band was at
the basketball games. Yeah. The band came, and
then half of the Corps, essentially, the Army
units had one home game, and then the Air Force
would have the next one. And so you got to go, and I
don't ever remember seeing tickets. Of course,
when we went to football games, I don't ever
remember seeing a ticket that I had. We marched
into the game, and then essentially filed up into
the stands like the band does now. We didn't march
back out. So I'm sure that somewhere in there,
there were tickets purchased. But the CO or first
sergeant handled all those. What did you and your
buddies think about the Aggie Band?
I think we were really envious because they got to
do a lot of traveling. But we were impressed by the
band's performance. We were always proud of the
Aggie band. How much prestige did the band
commander have among student leaders?
That was David Eller as a senior.
None particular. Not at all comparable to corps
commander? No. And on the campus when you were
president of student government, Did you feel
that you were equal to the Corps commander in
prestige? No. Don Cloud's position was very, very
unique and highly respected. But after that, what
was next in prestige? Well, the whole Corps staff,
I think, from the standpoint of this total student
body, once you became familiar with what went on
down here, I think the core staff members were
viewed as being the leadership on campus. Then you
had the student senate and the officers of each
class. What about your leaders? They were in a
class by themselves.
That was a different kind of leadership. they were
responsible for the morale of Aggies so they fit a
little different mold they weren't expected to
behave the same as a class president or a corps
staff member
Smokey Hyde for instance wasn't expected to do the
same things that Don Cloud did. What about RVs?
Very
worthy, sought after opportunity. Very unique
group. Only the very best would be able to become a
Ross volunteer. had the unique opportunity to be
the governor's honor guard and to go to New
Orleans. Were you an RV? Yes. Until I got kicked
out. For what? For missing too many practices as
chairman of... This was your senior year? No,
junior year. Junior year. Yeah, I had gotten in
RVs, gotten a uniform, had drilled with them for
about two months, And then I had a student
government conference and a Texas state science
convention. And I didn't know that that could
happen. Got back and had been gone two weeks, and
they said, if you can't drill, you can't be with us.
Now, how did you learn that you were going to be a
member? Because you didn't run for it. You weren't
elected. I think the military science department
selected. I'm not even sure. I got a letter
indicating that I had been selected as a Ross
volunteer. So you didn't apply. You weren't
interviewed. I wasn't. I didn't. I just got a
letter indicating that I had been selected as a
Ross Volunteer. And I believe that that letter was
signed by Colonel Joe Davis, the Commandant of
Military Science.
What did you do with the uniform after you were
dropped?
Did you keep it, turn it back? I believe that it was
checked out. I don't even remember What happened
to the uniform after I was booted out of the Ross
Volunteers? All right. Did you know that when you
were a student, did you know there were some secret
fraternities? Oh, yeah. Well, there was the mole
men that by reputation controlled the campus and
lived down in the steam tunnels. Never knowingly
met a mole man. But about 90% of the people that I
knew were reportedly in that organization. And
they were always being quoted in the bat, not by
name, but as a bone man. What about, did you hear of
the TTs and the stickers? Not I. Really?
What was the purpose of the Mole Men as far as you
knew? To represent the student body in issues on
campus relating to those student gripes and
things that we didn't appreciate and to try to
control the
staff over at the Military Science Department
that were always there watching every unit. It was
an opportunity to let off steam. Now let's see,
there were, the impact of veterans on the student
body during your day was comparatively small.
Yes, there were very few here. We didn't have a war
that ended where they came back here in any
significant numbers. So almost all of the
students were right out of high school.
Essentially. So let's return back to the
diversity. Were there some Jewish kids that you
knew? Not that I was aware of. I'm sure that there
were in our outfit, but they didn't stand out. They
weren't different. Were there any international
students? Not really. We had a few graduate
students, and I can remember in entomology there
were one or two from India. Were there many
students from other states? Not really. I don't
remember any in our outfit. They were all from
Texas. Alright, what was it that drew these
students together, whatever they were from? Why
were y'all? I think the core. It shaped and formed
everything other than your academic life. And so,
in many respects, about the only difference is
whether you came from the city or whether you came
from the country. And there were some
differences. in that respect in your history and
your experiences and how you thought but those
fairly quickly vanished as far as you became the
same when you put on the same clothes you have to go
through the same drill and harassment you're
taking the same courses there's a lot of
uniformity that took place We didn't have people,
as I always say, we didn't have none of my friends
that shaved their legs out here. And what were the
events that contributed most? You mentioned the
Corps. What else, what are the events, the
activities that contributed most to that unity,
that spirit? the harassment and the recognition
that if you were going to survive you'd better
stick together because if you got separated you
got the good fortune of having five or six
sophomores on you all at one time so it was the
recognition that you were in this thing together
and that the only way you were gonna survive was to
have five or six fish buddies with you all the time.
All right, so teamwork. Absolutely. And what
about Yale practice and football games and
bonfire? Those were the opportunity to get away
from the dorm life. And there weren't a whole lot of
those as you look back and you look at what this
campus and being an Aggie today is about.
But I think our expectations were a lot different.
We hadn't come from a background that had to be
entertained, that had to have air conditioning.
I'd never seen TV when I came to A&M. There was a TV in
a hardware store on the square in Wellington. It
wasn't Sullivan's. It sat in the window, but all
you could see was snow. And Saturday night when
we'd go to town to get groceries, there'd be a big
crowd watching that silly TV set and all you could
see was snow. You couldn't see figures on it. But I
saw my first TV set in the MSC. It wasn't really
good, and it was small, but I saw my first TV set
there. These other activities, do you remember
your first silver taps? Not vividly, but I
remember silver taps and the solemnness and how
quiet things were and how dark it was. Did you and
your buddies take it seriously? Yes. It was a very
reverent time. Generally we knew the individual
personally that had been killed because by and
large you knew every student on this campus. Some
you couldn't remember their names, but they
usually helped you every time you forgot. They
helped you remember the next time. But it was a very
moving experience. to everyone because you knew
that person. And it was a little bit like having a
cousin. Did you go to Muster? Yes. Where was it
held? It was held in G. Raleigh. And what did that
seem to be to you? A
daytime silver tap. It was very solemn. Muster
hadn't changed all that much. RVs came in and
fired. Many of the same activities that happened
today happened in the 50s and probably the 30s and
the 20s at Muster. You would have an Aggie speaker
that talked about their experiences.
Then the names of those that had passed away would
be called off. Someone would answer here. And it
was one of those experiences that you remember
because of its impact on you.
Your senior boots, how much did they cost? $76.
Where'd you get them? From a senior that graduated
the year before. And they almost fit. And how long
did you keep them? That year. When I graduated, I
sold them to a junior. Did you make any profit? No.
They sold for about $75 a year for break-even. Did
you enjoy wearing them? What did senior boots mean
to you internally? Well, they represented
achieving something you'd spent three years
trying to achieve. and
it was you just knew that that that was impressive
and you didn't know for sure a lot of times I can
remember Fish Van Zant and I fortunately we both
didn't decide to quit at the same time we'd take
time we'd swap off I'd come in disgusted about
something or down about something and be ready to
quit and go home and Fish Van Zant would say, no, we
can't do that and give me all the reasons and then
next week would be his time to be ready to quit. But
it was, you had paid your dues and it was something
that you felt like was earned and was worth what
you'd invested in it and I I've always used the
bonfire collapse thing you could read articles
and you could tell whether someone who had been
around this place wrote the article in the first
two paragraphs or if it was someone from the
international media that really didn't know what
A&M was about and I've always thought it was funny
that people didn't understand and you couldn't
explain exactly to them what it's like and unless
you've lived through it you really can't my kids
both said daddy you didn't really do that did you
and about half the things that I say is they didn't
believe How did you feel wearing those boots for
the first time at the final review as you were a
junior? They were very uncomfortable, but I
wasn't going to ever admit it. Clumsy. I'd worn
boots, cowboy boots, all my life, so part of it
wasn't all that new. But you felt very proud, but
they weren't really that comfortable. You were
awkward. For you, were there any special people in
the audience that day at Final Review your junior
year? My mom and dad came down. And when did you? All
of your buddies were there. That had become
family. It really had.
By the end of your freshman year, those guys are
important to you. And if they're there for
something, that's as special as when you're in
high school and your mom and dad are at an event.
So you have a different circle of really good,
close friends that are important to you. Was
buying that Aggie ring important? Oh, yeah. I
think that's always been important. How much did
that cost? $126, $127. And that was all your money?
Yes. You had earned it. Yeah. And I never knew
whether the rumor was that the association paid
for half of it, but I've been told and never have
honestly looked into it. that no that the rate that
ball for sets is what you pay and it I know that it
changes from year to year because uh when my
daughter bought her Aggie ring in 82 about three or
four years later she priced rings and they were
cheaper because gold had gone down and she was told
by the ring clerk over there that it depended on the
price of gold and there was a time when gold was very
high and has been off of course recently. Do you
have any ring stories? Have you had any
interesting experiences? Well the only thing
that happened is when
A&M became coed and non compulsory military I had
several of my classmates to send me their rings as
class agent and I had four rings for probably five
years and then they got in touch with me all of them
now gradually got in touch with me and said would I
send it back So I did. But I had four rings that were
sent to me by classmates that said, I'll never wear
this again. But over the years, they reclaimed
their rings. You never lost yours. Yeah, I lost
mine in a crawdad hole out here near the river in
Brazos County. I knew what hole it was in. Never
could find it. So it's still out there. I know where
it is. I know where the crawdad hole was. And I
bought a newer. What about, have you had any good
ring stories of where somebody somewhere far away
recognized? We've had several rings that we have
tracked down the 59er that have come in to the
association office.
Kathy Dockwaller, who was on the staff over the
association for years, always was helpful in
running down the owners of those rings. And that
was always an interesting experience, took
considerable time, and surprisingly some of them
didn't want their rings back. Yeah.
your senior year what were your feelings when you
did that final review
just I was relieved that it was over with because I I
knew what I was going to do at that time I was
entering graduate school had a job so final review
was
A fun experience, but at the same time was not one
that left an indelible mark on me. I remember it was
so hot out there and several people passed out. I
can remember that from being out of tension for a
considerable period of time. Now, who came for
commencement and final review? Generally
parents. We had quite a few parents that would come
in for final review. And did anybody, by then, are
you married by then? No. Didn't get married until a
month later after graduating. But she, was she
here? Yes. For? Yeah. Janiece came over for final
review. And who, commencement, describe
commencement in your day.
Trying to think who spoke, it was in G. Raleigh.
We received our diplomas by marching across the
stage, I suspect very similar as today, but
everybody graduated with one service. We didn't
have multiple services required. Every name was
called, every hand shaken. Yes. Roger Fellman did
it, and he did it. I don't know. He's probably not
doing it today, but here just a few years ago, Roger
was still one of those who read off the names and
pronounced them as they came across the stage. And
there was no monkey business? No. We didn't
celebrate on stage. As you were preparing to go out
into life how did well prepared did you feel A&M had
made you for the real world? I was confident that I
could handle that but I had also made the decision
that if I was going to ever go anywhere in
entomology that I had to get a PhD so I started that
even though I had a job I took made plans initially
to take time off to go back and get my masters and
ultimately a Ph.D. but that was just a start. I
recognized that in this profession to do what I
wanted to do that you had to have a Ph.D. Now it
wasn't required at that time for an area extension
entomologist but by 65 it was. Alright as you look
back Were there some life-changing events that
occurred